last November 27th Julie chrome felt the
pain of her sports on the far turn at
the Meadowlands this spill left her with
a broken arm dislocated shoulder and rib
at Remington Park in Oklahoma City
Midwest based rider Tony McNeil was
thrown and trampled by his mouth his
broken left femur kept inside line more
than five and a half months eight months
after her fall Julie Chrome was welcomed
back to racing at Monmouth Park
recovered from the devastating accident
Julie wrote a winner in her very first
race back her comeback was hastened by a
new training method that allows the
jockey to train without risking injury
on a horse instead the work is on a
wooden horse called an exerciser
designed by former writer Frank Lovato
jr. I wasn't until 1981 I'd already
written a full year almost two years and
I won the Eclipse award I was very
successful I guess I reached my dream
though I I broke my leg in 1981 again I
was I was stricken with the not being
able to ride frustrated being at home
trying to recuperate on crutches I put
my time to good use and I designed and
built the first horse Julie Chrome
started her comeback in her own living
room Bobby horse it pushes the jockey
through an exhausting workout just ask
angel Cordero even you get 110 horses a
day you won't get fed I feel that you
get here you see you know you can see
here a little one and you just push
anything and then you start with fire
already you know and then you're acting
like you're writing you will win every
month some beginning and you know and I
like I love it and the factory which
creates these riding machines
Lovato has turned his garage into an
equi sizer workshop where he alone
handcrafts the horses it's like building
an instrument you know there's all these
steps things have to be cut and glued
and and have to sit and some things have
to be drilled and set and so that's
that's a major step it all has to look
nice it's gonna if it's gonna be in
somebody's living room it might as well
be appealing and pretty believe it or
not this is where the head is derived
from is a block of wood like this and
these are the cheek pieces and this is
all glued up ends up being five pieces
of wood glued and clamped and it reaches
this stage and which doesn't seem to
look like much because of it really
isn't much it's kind of ugly and from
this point I I cut it all up and in
sculpturing and this is what it ends up
being is a horse besides being a tool
for recuperating jockeys the exerciser
is a valuable training device for the
next generation of writers chess what's
your stick man go get your thumb and
wrap your thumb in there keep the reins
tight I hope that it improves racing and
I think it will because it's gonna make
better jockeys the younger generation
kids that have these things it's going
to be a big advantage for them and
they're going to be able to practice and
polish up all their techniques before
they get on the on the racetrack it's a
new concept there too
I hope then I think it'll improve racing
riding a wooden horse doesn't guarantee
a trip to the winner's circle but Frank
Lovato hopes his invention will help
train more jockeys and perhaps another
Eclipse Award winner
you